README.md, before:

# nwg-dock

Fully configurable (w/ command line arguments and css) dock, written in Go, aimed exclusively at [sway](https://github.com/swaywm/sway) Wayland compositor. It features pinned buttons, task buttons, the workspace switcher and the launcher button. The latter by default starts `nwggrid` (application grid) from [nwg-launchers](https://github.com/nwg-piotr/nwg-launchers). In the picture(s) below the dock has been shown together with [nwg-panel](https://github.com/nwg-piotr/nwg-panel).

![06.png](https://scrot.cloud/images/2021/04/02/06.png)

[more pictures](https://scrot.cloud/album/nwg-dock.BuZM)

## Installation

### Requirements

- `go` up to 1.16.2: just to build. See the note below.
- `gtk3`
- `gtk-layer-shell`
- `nwg-launchers`: optionally. You may use another launcher, see help.

**Note**: For go 1.16.3 a more recent gotk3 version would be necessary. For now I tried the
 `86f85cbecd0b990beab32a3471b08ad3cdd8f93b` commit and it worked, but would give me deprecation warnings.
 It also needed some changes to the code, as `glib.TimeoutAdd` now returns just int, w/o `error`. Let's wait a little
  bit more.

### Steps

1. Clone the repository, cd into it.
2. Install necessary golang libraries with `make get`. First time it may take awhile, be patient.
3. `make build`
4. `sudo make install`

Or you may skip 1 and 2, and try just `sudo make install`. You've downloaded the binary in the `/bin` directory.

## Running

Either start the dock permanently in the sway config file,

```text
exec nwg-dock [arguments]
```

or assign the command to some key binding. Running the command again kills existing program instance, so you may use
the same key to open and close the dock.

## Running in autohiDe mode

If you run the program with the `-d` argument, it will start up hidden. Move the mouse pointer to expected dock
 location for the dock to show up. It will be hidden a second after you leave the window or use a button. Invisible
 hot spots to activate the dock will be created on all your outputs, unless you specify one with the `-o` argument.

As the dock in autohide mode is expected to be started from the sway config with

```text
exec_always nwg-dock -d
```

...re-execution of the command with the `-d` argument won't kill the running instance. If the dock is already
 running, another instance will exit with 0 code. In case you'd like to terminate it anyway, just use the
 `nwg-dock` command with no argument.

```txt
Usage of nwg-dock:
  -a string
    	Alignment in full width/height: "start", "center" or "end" (default "center")
  -c string
    	Command assigned to the launcher button (default "nwggrid -p")
  -d	auto-hiDe: show dock when hotspot hovered, close when left or a button clicked
  -f	take Full screen width/height
  -i int
    	Icon size (default 48)
  -l string
    	Layer "overlay", "top" or "bottom" (default "overlay")
  -mb int
    	Margin Bottom
  -ml int
    	Margin Left
  -mr int
    	Margin Right
  -mt int
    	Margin Top
  -o string
    	name of Output to display the dock on
  -p string
    	Position: "bottom", "top" or "left" (default "bottom")
  -s string
    	Styling: css file name (default "style.css")
  -v	display Version information
  -w int
    	number of Workspaces you use (default 8)
  -x	set eXclusive zone: move other windows aside; overrides the "-l" argument
```

## Styling

Edit `~/.config/nwg-dock/style.css` to your taste.

## Credits

This program uses some great libraries:

- [gotk3](https://github.com/gotk3/gotk3) Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Conformal Systems LLC,
Copyright (c) 2015-2018 gotk3 contributors
- [gotk3-layershell](https://github.com/dlasky/gotk3-layershell) by [@dlasky](https://github.com/dlasky/gotk3-layershell/commits?author=dlasky) - many thanks for writing this software, and for patience with my requests!
- [go-sway](https://github.com/joshuarubin/go-sway) Copyright (c) 2019 Joshua Rubin
- [go-singleinstance](github.com/allan-simon/go-singleinstance) Copyright (c) 2015 Allan Simon

Commit message:

Auto-detect nwg-drawer or nwggrid

README.md, after:

# nwg-dock

Fully configurable (w/ command line arguments and css) dock, written in Go, aimed exclusively at [sway](https://github.com/swaywm/sway) Wayland compositor. It features pinned buttons, task buttons, the workspace switcher and the launcher button. The latter by default starts `nwggrid` (application grid) from [nwg-launchers](https://github.com/nwg-piotr/nwg-launchers). In the picture(s) below the dock has been shown together with [nwg-panel](https://github.com/nwg-piotr/nwg-panel).

![06.png](https://scrot.cloud/images/2021/04/02/06.png)

[more pictures](https://scrot.cloud/album/nwg-dock.BuZM)

## Installation

### Requirements

- `go` 1.16 (just to build)
- `gtk3`
- `gtk-layer-shell`
- `nwg-launchers`: optionally. You may use another launcher, see help.

### Steps

1. Clone the repository, cd into it.
2. Install golang libraries with `make get`. First time it may take ages, be patient.
3. `make build`
4. `sudo make install`

If your machine is x86_64, you may skip 2 and 3, and just install the provided binary with `sudo make install`.

## Running

Either start the dock permanently in the sway config file,

```text
exec nwg-dock [arguments]
```

or assign the command to some key binding. Running the command again kills existing program instance, so that
you could use the same key to open and close the dock.

## Running in autohiDe mode

If you run the program with the `-d` argument, it will start up hidden. Move the mouse pointer to expected dock
 location for the dock to show up. It will be hidden a second after you leave the window or use a button. Invisible
 hot spots to activate the dock will be created on all your outputs, unless you specify one with the `-o` argument.

As the dock in autohide mode is expected to be started from the sway config with

```text
exec_always nwg-dock -d
```

...re-execution of the command with the `-d` argument won't kill the running instance. If the dock is already
 running, another instance will exit with 0 code. In case you'd like to terminate it anyway, just use the
 `nwg-dock` command with no argument.

```txt
Usage of nwg-dock:
  -a string
    	Alignment in full width/height: "start", "center" or "end" (default "center")
  -c string
    	Command assigned to the launcher button
  -d	auto-hiDe: show dock when hotspot hovered, close when left or a button clicked
  -f	take Full screen width/height
  -i int
    	Icon size (default 48)
  -l string
    	Layer "overlay", "top" or "bottom" (default "overlay")
  -mb int
    	Margin Bottom
  -ml int
    	Margin Left
  -mr int
    	Margin Right
  -mt int
    	Margin Top
  -nolauncher
    	don't show launcher button switcher
  -nows
    	don't show the workspace switcher
  -o string
    	name of Output to display the dock on
  -p string
    	Position: "bottom", "top" or "left" (default "bottom")
  -s string
    	Styling: css file name (default "style.css")
  -v	display Version information
  -w int
    	number of Workspaces you use (default 8)
  -x	set eXclusive zone: move other windows aside; overrides the "-l" argument
```

## Styling

Edit `~/.config/nwg-dock/style.css` to your taste.

## Credits

This program uses some great libraries:

- [gotk3](https://github.com/gotk3/gotk3) Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Conformal Systems LLC,
Copyright (c) 2015-2018 gotk3 contributors
- [gotk3-layershell](https://github.com/dlasky/gotk3-layershell) by [@dlasky](https://github.com/dlasky/gotk3-layershell/commits?author=dlasky) - many thanks for writing this software, and for patience with my requests!
- [go-sway](https://github.com/joshuarubin/go-sway) Copyright (c) 2019 Joshua Rubin
- [go-singleinstance](github.com/allan-simon/go-singleinstance) Copyright (c) 2015 Allan Simon
